# yet-another-pompfen-store

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This content is licensed under AGPL v3[^1] because I want to encourage sharing within the community.
> I hope that I'm never going to have to argue about the details with anyone about this. The main things I want are:
>  - If you use this in your own work (directly, or even just borrowing some design features), you must also release your work under AGPL v3. 
>  - If you designed your parts in a different cad software, please share the designs in the native format or STEP. I don't think mesh files count as "source".
>  - While not required by the license, attribution would be nice!  
> 
> I am uploading this work for free use (in all senses) because I want to see Jugger continue to grow and the equipment to improve. Please carry that spirit forward.


## Documentation

Eventually I'll move this to a more appropriate place, but for now this is fine.
More complete statuses and specific manufacturing documentation on each part is in the New Sticks epic in the Ursae Notion.

### Setup

There shouldn't be much setup. Just clone the repo. If you don't have [BOSL2](https://github.com/BelfrySCAD/BOSL2) installed, you can just `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` to get it in the repo directory.

You may also need to `chmod +x buildall` before you can run the build script. It references `/usr/bin/python`, so if that doesn't exist, make a symlink (or change the interpreter in `buildall` or run it with python or whatever you'd like)

### Build System

I made a silly little custom build system, since openscad is funny and I couldn't find something that fits my needs.
You'll see comments above modules like this:

```openscad
// @build tip_thread_m_nodfm.stl include_dfm=false
// @build tip_thread_m.stl include_dfm=true
module tip_thread_m(
   // ...,
   include_dfm=true){
    // ...
}
```

This tells the build system to build two stls from this module: one with the parameter `include_dfm` set to `true`, and the other `false`.

To build the .stl files, run the build script:

```bash
./buildall
```

This exports all files to the build folder. It also runs the CAM script, which generates some gcode for cutting the EPP. This is not well documented since it was just a one-off I made for myself and my specific setup. If you want to do a similar thing, you should just write your own gcode. It's not hard, and you'll be able to debug it much easier.

### Assemblies

`assemblies.scad` contains all TLAs (**T**op-**L**evel **A**ssemblies). This is not as helpful as it should be; you still have to go in and highlight or hide things to actually see what's going on, because openscad doesn't have a great way to prevent merging of touching parts.
It maybe helpful to make a section view:

```openscad
difference(){
    long_tla();
    cube(10000, anchor=RIGHT);
}
```

### Parameters

All values are in millimeters. If you have a measurement in inches, there's a convenient variable `INCH` which is defined as `25.4`; please use `INCH` instead of the number to avoid magic numbers.

`params.scad` contains all system-wide parameters. Other parameters fall into two categories:
 - **local parameters** are arguments to modules. They only impact the part generated by that module (not its children).
 - **shared parameters**[^2] are variables starting with a `$`, which openscad shares with children. This helps parts that need to fit together share the same parameters. Defaults are defined at the top of the files, and new values can be passed in as keyword arguments to modules.

At some point in the future I hope to integrate this with Customizer, but that's not high on my priority list right now.

## Building Your Own

The intent is to sell these, but that doesn't mean you can't make your own!
I caution that these were designed to be easy to make at a larger scale, so the time and material cost may be much higher for you.

### Overall
- recommend 0.15mm layer height max; there are small details that need to be resolved well
- try to print on the hotter side with less cooling to help layer adhesion (if you can do that without sacrificing part quality)
- when printing on top of EPP, use significant z-hop to ensure you always clear it and don't melt away little lines of EPP during travel moves
- random seam positions can be helpful if your seam is very noticeable and causing interface issues
- unless otherwise specified below, nothing should require supports. Orient the parts so that this is the case. They may be flipped in the stls.
- assumes ½" EPP.

### Assembly
 - tape over all 3dp/EPP interfaces with athletic tape. Cut holes beforehand.
  - - adding a layer of tape to the surface of the EPP increases the strength by acting as a tensile member (EPP is much stronger in compression than tension)
 - Use athletic tape on the non-splined section of `blade_m` to tape it to the core.
    - This is the critical dimension that determines compatibility with other sticks. Using tape instead of superglue is not only stronger and fails in a more desirable way, but also makes this measurement adjustable if absolutely necessary.
 - Tape over the edge of the pommel so it stays on the core.

### Foam
 - use ½" thick EPP sheets cut into circles with the same OD as your noodle and same ID as the 3dp part they go on
     - I clamped a hot knife foam cutter to my printer and wrote some gcode. Do a couple test cuts to see your max feedrate (don't push it too hard, any deflection will hurt your accuracy and it's faster to just do one good cut than a fast cut and a spring pass) and tune your kerf. It's like <10 lines and a good excuse to actually understand G2/3.
 - For the blade, you need to use a single piece of foam, which you can get from either pipe insulation which you take a slice out of to make the ID match the core, or from a solid noodle with a hole cut through the center (this is preferred because the seam is not a weak point)
     - see my coring jig: https://www.printables.com/model/1233976-pompf-coring-jig
 - For a staff guard, you need the ID to be large enough to fit around all the other hardware. I have used pipe insulation for this because I think a larger diameter guard is easier to block with. If you want a smaller guard, normal (non-solid) pool noodle works as well (just be sure to change `GUARD_OD`).
 - The tip should be 37.3mm thick on top of the EPP.
 - An additional buffer of 50mm of foam behind the EPP can help it degrade less when chainbreaking. The 50mm buffer can then be replaced easily.
     - you don't need to tape this in place if you have a tight cover


### Slicing

Generally, use the two .3mf files in the `slice` folder. They contain all the modifications described below and are what I use to print the parts. They are separated by material.

For completeness, I've written up everything here, though I may remove this going forward. Generally speaking check the .3mf files for the final recommendation; what is below should only be used for getting the general idea.

### `blade_f`
 - print flange side down or elephant foot can mess with the spline geometry

### `blade_m`
 - print with the splines at the top to prevent elephant foot from making it not fit into blade_f nicely
 - brim recommended; there's not much contact area

### `tip_thread_m`
 - use at least 5 perimeters; this part takes a lot of load.
 - print with flange UP! you need supports on the pin in the middle and the flange. This is because otherwise there will be supports for the end of the threads inside the part which are a huge pain to remove.

### `pommel`
 - Add `pommel_modifier` as a modifier volume with higher infill. This helps prevent buckling and distributes the load of the core so you can't feel it through the bottom.
     - aside: usually it's better to add more perimeters rather than increase infill if you want more strength, but because this is a flexible part, the load gets distributed into the infill much more.
 - use 2 walls on the side AND BOTTOM.
 - I liked gyroid infill because it didn't have specific directions in which the stiffness is greatly increased (ie, because of straight lines causing buckling load cases inside - it's already pre-buckled)

### `staff_grip`
 - tune the infill percentage to your desired firmness.
 - "solid infill every N layers" can increase stiffness a lot without adding much weight

This part has not fully been finalized; you may want to tune the shape to match your needs. It's fairly simple to do so; just tune the arguments to the `staff_grip` module. Everyone has different sized hands and different preferences on guard size and grip length so customize it to your liking.

It may be worth printing some very low infill, low perimeter count prototypes out of a cheaper material to make sure the shape is roughly what you want before printing the whole thing in flexible filament, which will take a while if your printer (like mine) isn't great at flexibles.

[^1]: I am aware that this is not very well suited for hardware projects (I'm not sure if there even is a good license for OpenSCAD projects). But it captures the spirit of what I'm trying to do, and I hope that the details never become relevant anyway. Please be nice and share your work.
[^2]: I am working on getting comments on every module that uses shared parameters that say `// uses: $a, $b, $c`. You might see that on some modules, but it's not exhaustively done yet.